HARI SREENIVASAN: There are
new revelations today about
how President Obama learned of
Russia's efforts to tip
the 2016 election in
Donald Trump's favor, and
how his administration
responded.
I spoke a short time ago to
Greg Miller, national security
correspondent for The Washington
Post, who co-authored a lengthy
investigation that the paper
published today on this topic.
And I began by asking about
the role Putin played.
GREG MILLER, National Security
Correspondent, The Washington
Post: In early August, the
CIA comes to the White House
with a really remarkable
piece of intelligence.
It's drawn on sourcing deep
inside the Russian government.
It establishes that Putin
himself is directing
this operation, this
election interference
that is just unfolding
in the United States.
But it goes one step
farther than that.
And that's what's
most interesting and
extraordinary to me.
It also captures
Putin's instructions
on what the objectives
of this operation are.
He identifies those objectives
as denigrating, damaging Hillary
Clinton, trying to help defeat
her, and trying to help
elect Donald Trump.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You also
point out the levels of
secrecy and precaution
taken by the administration
and the intelligence agencies
in how this information gets
to the president and even
how people need to talk about
it and share information.
GREG MILLER: Yes, it's really
remarkable, the precautions
that the administration was
taking with this information.
This intel, when it's delivered
to the White House, is brought
by courier in an envelope
with restricted markings on it.
It's eyes only, which means
it can only be shared with
the four people who are named
on the envelope, President Obama
and three of his senior aides.
They then they have,
when they're done reading
this thing, put it back
in the envelope, send
it straight back to the CIA.
It sets in motion a series of
meetings, high-level meetings at
the White House in the Situation
Room.
Only four senior officials
are initially allowed
to participate, although
that circle begins
to widen in the ensuing weeks.
And even there, there are things
that I didn't know about how
the White House works that,
apparently, in the Situation
Room, there are video cameras
that send feeds to other offices
in the White House, so that
others sitting at their desks
can monitor what's happening
in that room.
All those feeds were shut off
for all of these discussions.
The only time that had
ever happened before
was in the run-up to
the bin Laden operation
in 2011.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Let's talk
a little bit about what the
Obama administration tried
to do about it.
They debated a menu of
options, so to speak,
for quite some time.
GREG MILLER: Right.
So, they debated and
debated and debated.
That went on for months after
this bombshell intelligence
report from the CIA.
They got off to a fast.
There are groups, NSC,
interagency groups that are
convening at the White House and
kicking around ideas that are
really aggressive, sector-wide
economic sanctions that could
put a dent in Russia's economy,
cyber-retaliation that could
take portions of Russia's power
grid or other targets
offline for short
periods, even releasing
embarrassing information on
Putin, the way he was sort
of accused of orchestrating
embarrassing leaks
about Hillary Clinton.
None of those end up surviving
this debate process that goes
well past the election deep
into November and December.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You
also highlight kind of
bureaucratic hurdles.
The Department of Homeland
Security goes out to
states that could be
affected by this hacking
and says, we would like to help,
but the voting infrastructure in
America is not deemed critical
enough?
GREG MILLER: Yes, and this
is one of those cases where
the hyper-partisanship of our
country now really works
against our security
interests in many ways.
So this is a case where
the Obama administration
is just trying to reach
out to state officials,
saying Russia's attacking
us, we are worried about what
might happen on Election Day.
We want to try to help
make sure that all of our
voting systems are secure.
We can run scans.
We can try to be
of assistance here.
And Republicans in particular,
state officials, resist this and
see it as sort of an overreach,
an attempted federal takeover
of state authorities,
and argue against it.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You know,
you point out that this is
in the backdrop of a climate
where there is an underlying
assumption that Hillary Clinton
is going to win, where Donald
Trump has gone out and
said the election is
going to be rigged anyway.
And really not until after
the election does the Obama
administration start to put all
these pieces together.
GREG MILLER: Yes, I don't
think you can overestimate
the importance of that,
because the assumption
in the White House and
as well as across media
organizations like ours
and across the country,
frankly, there was just an
assumption that we were looking
at a Clinton -- a coming Clinton
administration.
So, inside the White
House, their deliberations
are, well, this is all
important, but we have
got to -- we're going to
have time to deal with
this after the election.
In fact, if we don't finish
dealing with it, well, the
Clinton administration certainly
can.
And, also, they don't
want to take any action
leading up to the election
that would be perceived
as interfering politically
to help Hillary Clinton.
They're worried that
that would contaminate
her expected triumph.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Greg Miller,
the reporting is fantastic,
you and your colleagues, Adam
Entous and Ellen Nakashima.
Thanks so much for joining us.
GREG MILLER: Thank you.